---
title: "COST Fine Art Mutual Galleries"
date: 2020-08-11T09:51:17-05:00
draft: true
author: Jesse B. Miller
---

*Draft in progress, please help with constructive feedback!
 [@jessebmiller](https://twitter.com/jessebmiller)*

[Common Ownership Self Assessed Tax
\(COST\)](http://radicalmarkets.com/chapters/property-is-monopoly/) is
a radical new system of ownership where property owners publish a
valuation of their property, pay some fixed tax rate on that
valuation, and are obliged to sell to anyone who pays it.

Fine art is a particularly well suited for COST experimentation.
Different people value each piece differently, it's more valuable when
shared, and there are fewer complications with timing and user
confusion relating to ownership change than there are with things
other proposals for the COST like real estate, radio spectrum, or
domain names.

How could we run such an experiment? What would such a system of ownership
need?

It would need a robust method of adding artworks to the gallery and
linking the physical objects and their ownership to a legal agreement
of participation in the COST system as well as tracking owners and
their valuations and collecting and distributing taxes. Smart
contracts on the Ethereum blockchain are well suited to manage the
financial portion of the COST system. A simple legal agreement to
transfer possession of the work to new owners who have agreed to the
same terms would need to be signed and a reputation system could help
encourage good faith participation on top of the threat of legal
action.

Artists and collectors would be invited to create or join mutual
galleries by signing the agreement and contributing their artwork to
the system which would begin by auctioning it. The contributor would
receive the proceeds from the auction and the mutual would receive all
ongoing COST on ownership. Artworks in the collection would grant both
their contributor and current owner one vote in the mutual which could
be used to distribute the tax revenue to members as dividends or to
buy or commission more work. Mutual members would also vote to accept
new artwork into the gallery. Artists and collectors, through this
mechanism, pool their risk by sharing a portion of the returns from
the artwork in the collection.

Mutual gallery members will accept new artwork into the collection
when they believe it will increase the value of the collection and
artists and collectors will offer their work and join galleries to
gain the financial stability the rest of the collection offers.

Please get in touch on [Twitter
@jessebmiller](https://twitter.com/jessebmiller) if you'd like to see
more work on this idea, or if you have any feedback or questions.