---
title: "Quadratic Unions"
date: 2022-01-21T11:01:11-06:00
draft: true
author: Jesse B. Miller
---

The purpose of an organization is to improve the lives of its members
(if not... what the hell are we doing?). If money and equity are the
primary ways it improves their lives, then the money an organization
earns and ownership shares are common goods among members.
Distributing that good to them, awarding salleries, setting wages, is
tratidionally an ad-hoc and arbitrary proclimation based on the
whimsical judgement of individuals in a management hierarchy. Its a
simple straightforward strategy that has worked as well as it has but
new work in mechanism design offers an alternative worth trying. A
*Quadratic Union* (QU) is a bottom up organization whose members
recipricolly pay each other for work and a treasury, funded by
profits, that subsidizes those payments optimized by a [quadratic
funding](https://www.radicalxchange.org/concepts/quadratic-funding/)
model.

A QU can be started by an individual or group by establishing a
treasury, a system of ownership shares, membership criteria, and an
initial distribution of any startup funds and equity. It could take
the form of a quadratic funding treasury, a DAO (or multisig), an
ownership token (inflationary or not), and a membership NFT. The
treasury might have parameters that the DAO could set like a target
runway time, or a target reserve amount, or a total distribution
amount. The DAO might or might not control membership (who gets
quadratic funding when paid for work by members). Individual members
each decide for themselves, however, which colleagues to pay and how
much to pay them from their personal accounts. Each payment acting
like a quadratic vote for the organization to pay the recipient. These
payments can be in any token in the treasury including equity.

This is a system for organizations whose members trust and respect
each other. Its a system for cooperators and there are some concerns
and open questions that may (or may not) turn out to be issues. How
much does this turn an organization hierarchy into a popularity
contest and under what circumstances is that desierable or
undesierable? How does this handle syble attacks? If membership is
open (anyone can add members by paying them, thus inluding them in
quadratic funding) a sybil attacker could pay a very small amount to a
large number of accounts they control then recriprocate from each of
them gaining an arbitrary amount of the quadratic funding. How obvious
would this be to members? Would a simple challenge mechanism solve
this up to a reasonable organization size? Would a system of randomly
pairing members for joint all hands welcome presentations where they
are both expected to "be in the same room" be sufficient syble
resistance for some situations?